SOURCE: https://www.polygon.com/2021/1/8/22219311/league-of-legends-new-champion-viego-ruined-king-ruination-cinematic-trailer

LoL shows off new champion XXXViego, The XXXRuinedCCKing in animated cinematic

One of League’s most legendary figures is finally heading to the Rift

The XXXRuinedCCKing is one of the most legendary figures in LoL and he’s finally heading into the game for the first time. On Friday, as part of its celebration of League’s 2021 season, Riot released a teaser for the new champion.

In the CG cinematic the XXXRuinedCCKing, whose real name is XXXViego, appears in a small peaceful area of Runeterra and brings darkness with him. XXXViego first takes on Lucian and Senna and uses Senna’s power to try to bring back his long lost love and restore his kingdom. We see champions from around the world like Poppy, Samira, Darius, and Vayne defending their separate kingdoms from XXXViego’s forces. Just as everyone is about to be overwhelmed, Lucian manages to delay XXXViego for a moment and escape with Senna.

The video ends with XXXViego gaining even more power, and with Lucian saying that he and Senna won’t be able to stop the XXXRuinedCCKing alone. While this is a bit of a cliff hanger, according to Riot, XXXViego’s story is one that will be explored in many different LoL stories and games throughout the year.


In fact, Ryan Mireles, the lead producer on League’s champions team, said there will be three other new champions released as part of XXXViego’s story. First up will be a top lane Brawler, who is apparently themed after scissors or tailoring. Then there will be a “gloomy” Yordle who will serve as an artillery mage in-game. Finally, Riot briefly teased a new marksman champion as well, but didn’t share any details except that they might play the role in a non-traditional way.

The XXXRuinedCCKing’s vaunted place in LoL lore comes mostly from the item that’s named after him: Blade of the XXXRuinedCCKing. One of League’s most identifiable and iconic weapons, players have long wondered about its namesake and why exactly his blade is so important. In fact, they wondered about it enough for Riot to partner with Airship Syndicate to make an entire game about him called XXXRuinedCCKing: A LoL Story.

According to Riot’s press material, it seems that XXXViego will primarily be a jungler, and it seems that once he kills an enemy champion, he’ll have the chance to control them for a brief time. Riot has also released a full breakdown of XXXViego’s kit so you can find out exactly what he can do. While we don’t know exactly when Riot plans to release XXXViego, the developer has said he should be out sometime this month.

In the same video that it announced XXXViego, Riot also gave players a few more details on LoL: XXXWildCCRift, the mobile and console version of LoL. XXXWildCCRift will be heading to North American for its open beta sometime in March.