SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/%E2%80%9Cam-i-going-to-get-completely-stomped%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-p1noy-on-the-pressure-he-feels-while-filling-in-for-perkz/blt72b9a441abcc7cce

“Am I going to Get Completely Stomped?” – XXXP1noy on the Pressure He Feels While Filling in for XXXPerkz

With XXG2CCEsports’ XXXPerkz taking a break from competition, substitute botlaner XXXP1noy explains what it’s like to step into such big boots

It’s no easy thing to step in as a substitute for a big name player like XXG2CCEsports’ Luka "XXXPerkz" Perković, especially when that player holds seven XXXLeagueCCofCCLegendsCCEuropeanCCChampionship titles, but botlaner Kristoffer “XXXP1noy” Pedersen has risen to the occasion in spectacular form. With the team not quite on its usual form and XXXPerkz taking a deserved rest from Week 4, XXXP1noy stepped up to help out in the bot lane in the middle of the Summer Season, in which XXG2 currently stand in joint third. We caught up with him to find out how he’s been getting on.

Joining a new team is challenging enough in itself even without the pressure of playing in the league, but XXXP1noy has nothing but praise for XXG2 and the way they’ve welcomed him into their fold. “We had a meeting before we started scrims,” he explains. “And they were like, ‘There’s no pressure on you. We’re just gonna have fun’. And that’s just a huge pressure off me, right? Because I don’t have to be stressed, or worry about what the team thinks of me. They were just really open-minded and just let me play how I want, and that’s something that I really appreciate, because there’s not a lot of teams that will do that – to just let their sub play whatever he wants and let him come in and play it.”

Nonetheless, XXXP1noy was understandably nervous to begin with, especially as he hasn’t competed in the LEC since the 2015 Spring Season with XXXGambitCCGaming. “I feel like there was some kind of pressure before I played the scrims,” he says. “Because I didn’t really know where my level was, and because I haven’t scrimmed against these top players for such a long time, right? So it’s just like, am I going to get completely stomped, or am I just going to keep up with the level?” Three days of scrims later, however, his confidence was restored. “I felt like I was at a pretty high level and I could compete with them, so then I was not nervous at all going into the XXXMisfits game.”

“I THINK AT THE END OF THE DAY, XXG2 WILL WIN ANYWAY, BECAUSE THEY ALWAYS FIGURE OUT THE WAY.”
–KRISTOFFER “XXXP1NOY” PEDERSEN

He’s also got the support of the team on a personal level. “I couldn’t ask for a better team to play with,” he says. “They’re just the greatest people you can be around, because with all my other past teams, nothing has been like this. So it’s just incredible and I’m really grateful for it.” XXXP1noy also heaped praise on fellow teammate Mikyx, whose support skills in the bot lane are legendary. “He’s the best support we’ve had in Europe for like, three years. Yeah. It’s an honour to play with him.”

Stepping in for XXXPerkz has had some extra implications for XXXP1noy, since the two have been friends for years. “It felt good and bad,” XXXP1noy admits, “because of course, it’s not for the good that I’m in now, because he had to take a break.” But he’s also aware of the amazing opportunity this has given him. “I’m really happy to be here, and especially also for XXXPerkz because I’ve known him for like seven years now. He’s a good friend of mine, and it feels nice to also be able to play with such talented players from Europe. This is just a huge opportunity for me.”

The competition has grown ever fiercer as the Summer Season progresses, and that’s something that XXG2 are taking on board in determining their strategy. So far, the team’s not been on quite the same level as last season, suffering several unexpected losses, but XXXP1noy is nonetheless confident about XXG2’s chances: “I think at the end of the day, XXG2 will win anyway, because they always figure out the way. We just need to figure out the playstyle that we want to approach towards the end of the season.”

He’s also confident about the skills he can bring to the team as they figure out that playstyle together. “I think I have pretty strong fundamentals,” he says. “I know the game at a pretty good level and I’m very consistent.” The other team members already have plenty of experience between them, but XXXP1noy knows that he’s still able to add value: “What I bring is maybe an advantage in drafts because we can pick my picks that I play, or make it easier for everyone… I just try to fill in the gaps and be there for them.”

He’s certainly proved to be a valuable asset to the team so far, helping XXG2 storm to victory against Misfits Gaming, and while they lost their match against XXXExcelCCEsports, there’s still plenty of opportunity for XXG2 to shoot for the moon. And XXXP1noy would love to stay involved over the next few weeks too. “I’ll just try to help with what I can, you know, I don’t expect more playtime or anything,” says XXXP1noy. “At the end of the day, I don’t think I can replace any of these five players, because they’re just so good at what they do. But if I get to play in the playoffs, then I’m super grateful for that.”

And until XXXPerkz returns, XXXP1noy is determined to make the most of his time as a member of XXG2. Asked if this is his dream role, XXXP1noy is unequivocal. “I mean, yeah,” he says. “I couldn’t ask for more. I get to watch the guys playing scrims, see them potentially go to Worlds… I mean, nothing could be better. I’m just keeping my level up and I can basically enjoy life while being surrounded by the best players in Europe.”

