SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/%E2%80%9Ci-hope-the-meta-will-change-every-season%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-analysing-the-summer-season-mid-lane-with-mad-humanoid/blted96f359ec766296

XXXSyndraCCbuild & XXXOriannaCCbuild – Analysing the Summer Season Mid Lane with XXXMAD XXXHumanoid

XXXMADCCLions' Marek “XXXHumanoid” Brázda offers his advice on playing the most dominant champions of the Summer Season mid lane.

The mid lane is probably the most beloved role in XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends, as any solo queue player trying to secure the lane in champion select will know. Midlaners enjoy some independence in their laning phase, get to exert pressure on side lines during the early game, and usually scale well, becoming their team's main source of damage in many games.

To look back on this powerful role in the Summer Season, we are joined by one of the best mids in the XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends European Championship (LEC), XXXMADCCLions' Marek “XXXHumanoid” Brázda.

Overall Thoughts

As is to be expected, the mid lane proved to be quite strong during summer. "It felt powerful," says XXXHumanoid succinctly. Midlaners were able to exert as much power as they had in the past, with ample influence both in the early game and late game too.

The most common picks of the season were the usual suspects, with the old guard of XXXAzir and XXXCorki being headliners alongside XXXOrianna and other mages like XXXSyndra, XXXZoe, and XXXTwistedCCFate. The ideal midlaner in this season scaled well, had a good deal of crowd control, and could burst the enemy carry with a couple of clicks.
Which is to say, the ideal midlaner has not really changed much in recent years at all. “I hope the meta will change every season,” says XXXHumanoid, “so it doesn’t get boring.” Although the mid lane was indeed powerful, it would still be nice to see more diversity in the role, for the players and viewers alike.

Asked what specifically he would change about the meta, XXXHumanoid said that he would make more assassins viable. Although XXXAkali has been making strides, with a high presence of 70 percent in playoffs, she is the only assassin, barring XXXLeBlanc, to see any playtime in professional play so far. If XXXHumanoid could only play one champion for the rest of his career, it would be XXXAkali. “I think she's the most fun champion in the game,” says XXXHumanoid, and her high pick and ban rate in the playoffs suggests that many other professional midlaners feel the same.

Compared to other roles, the mid lane was still pretty varied and balanced in terms of picks. While XXXOrianna and XXXAzir reigned supreme together, with over 30 picks each during the regular season, four unique champions had over 15 picks, and there were plenty of surprising one-shots as well.

XXXOriannaCCbuild

The MVP of mid lane in the Summer Season according to XXXHumanoid, XXXOrianna was picked the most both in the regular season and playoffs, and she boasted a pick and ban rate just shy of 80 percent. XXXOrianna has always been a popular pick in professional play as a strong and safe champion with playmaking potential, but she seemed just slightly more impressive than usual in summer.

One of the reasons why XXXOrianna might have been extra oppressive this season is because of the lack of assassins in the summer meta. “There were not enough assassins that can jump into the backline in the meta,” he says. Like we mentioned earlier, only XXXAkali and XXXLeBlanc saw any action, and this makes the immobile XXXOrianna suddenly a lot safer to play.

“She was also very good against all the meta junglers and Attack Damage Carry (XXXADC)[champions] for the first half of the season,” XXXHumanoid adds. The early summer bot lane meta featured XXXAphelios as the most-played, an immobile carry for whom XXXOrianna’s XXXCommand:CCShockwaveCC(R) is impossible to dodge. Currently, popular botlaners like XXXAshe and XXXSenna also struggle to battle XXXOrianna in team fights.

XXXAzirCCbuild & XXXCorkiCCbuild

XXXAzir and XXXCorki have both been the traditional mid lane pick in professional play since the dawn of time. ”He’s got a very strong lane, fast push, and good scaling,” says XXXHumanoid, explaining some of XXXAzir’s many strengths.

Like XXXOrianna, XXXAzir is very good in the current immobile bot lane meta for two reasons. Firstly, immobility makes his ultimate easier to land. Secondly, immobile champions find it much harder to get out of the melee range of XXXAzir’s soldiers. XXXCorki is popular for different reasons. Perhaps most important is his ability to influence side lanes by roaming after he picks up his passive, XXXHextechCCMunitions.

One tip XXXHumanoid wants to share with prospective XXXAzir players is to keep it simple. “Do not try to go for a fancy shuffle every time,” he advises, “try to just hit the frontline most of the time.” While a montage-worthy XXXEmperor’sCCDivideCC(R) can work out well, it’s often too important of an ultimate to waste.

XXXSyndraCCbuild

Though her popularity has waned since, in the regular season XXXSyndra had the second highest presence of all midlaners at 81 percent. “She has an easy push in almost every matchup,” says XXXHumanoid, in an effort to explain her popularity, “and she’s really good at all stages of the game.” Due to her strong wave clear and the ability to poke at range, XXXSyndra has a relatively easy time in lane – though she, like XXXOrianna, may struggle against assassins due to her squishiness and immobility. In team fights, XXXSyndra can unleash extreme area-of-effect damage and crowd control, or focus all her might on a single target.

One tip XXXHumanoid wants to share regards XXXSyndra’s stun. In order to stun a target, XXXSyndra must first summon a sphere, and cause it to collide into a target with XXXScatterCCheCCWeakCC(E). Your first instinct might be to use your XXXDarkCCSphereCC(Q) and then E, but XXXHumanoid advises against that. “[ForceCCofCCWill]CCW into E combo is very strong,” he says, “and is easier to hit than Q E.” It is also far less predictable, which makes it harder to dodge.

Playoffs and Play-ins

Honing in on playoffs instead of the regular season, we see both old trends and new. XXXOrianna and XXXAzir remain prominent, whereas XXXSyndra and XXXCorki seem to have fallen out of favour for the time being. Just as XXXHumanoid would have liked, we see some more assassins in the meta. XXXAkali reached a presence of 70 percent in playoffs, after having only two picks and zero bans in the regular season.

Only a few days into the World Championship, we see many juicy picks in the mid lane. XXXOrianna and XXXSyndra currently reign supreme, but are being closely followed by XXXLucian, XXXSett, and XXXGalio - champions that we have not seen in the mid lane much during the regular season and playoffs. Which picks will ultimately dominate the Worlds is yet to be seen, but we’re sure we’ll soon be finding out.