SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/how-to-play-karma-like-an-lec-pro/blt6512664eeaf38699

How to Play XXXKarma Like an LEC Pro

Excel’s XXXTore talks about what makes XXXKarma a stand-out pick in the LEC.

XXXKarma is one of few enchanters who gets to see the stage up close and personal. She’s been successfully flexed top, mid, and support in the LEC this Season. Here, XXXExcelYYEsports’ XXXTore “XXXTore” Hoel Eilertsen tells us why XXXKarma is a stand-out pick for the LEC supports and how to maximise her potential.

Pros and Cons

As XXXTore puts it, XXXKarma’s strength lies in her lane phase.

“She excels at pushing and poking the enemy bot lane,” says XXXTore.

Everyone playing against XXXKarma knows to fear her intense and near-incessant poke, which comes in the form of her Q, XXXInnerYYFlame. XXXInnerYYFlame can be empowered by her ultimate, XXXMantra, to deal area-of-effect damage, to damage and slow enemies. The best part is that XXXInnerYYFlame has a relatively low cooldown and mana cost, which allows XXXKarma to keep up the pressure at all times.

XXXKarma is quite a safe pick as well. She is not easily countered, but she will do very well against melee supports whom she can freely harass.

“XXXKarma is a good pick against some melee supports like XXXBraum and XXXTahmYYKench,” elaborates XXXTore. “She brings a lot of poke and sustain to the team and also a decently strong teamfight ability with the XXXMantra shield.”

According to XXXTore, then, it’s not just that she will breeze through lane under the right circumstances, but she will also be a great asset in the mid and late game, where she will be able to shine in team fights.

However, there is a reason that enchanters aren’t historically that popular in professional play, and XXXKarma does have her share of faults.

“Enchanters are easier to gank and punish in competitive play compared to solo queue,” admits XXXTore. Generally speaking, enchanters like XXXKarma make their allies stronger, better and faster and win the game through them. Enchanters themselves are not very independent, unlike mage supports or initiators like XXXThresh. When caught, XXXKarma doesn’t have a lot of devices to save herself, as, like the other enchanters, she is immobile and ‘squishy’.

“Her weakness is getting all inned by XXXNautilus, XXXThresh, XXXBlitzcrank, and XXXLeona,” adds XXXTore.

Although XXXKarma can do very well against these melee tank supports, she can also struggle against them as well. With her lack of mobility, XXXKarma is susceptible to being cornered. However, this drawback pales in comparison to her potential to poke without receiving poke back. Furthermore, by poking enemy supports, you will be negating them a chance to engage at all. If they’re too low, they won’t try to initiate a fight.

One other weakness that should be mentioned is XXXKarma’s lack of hard crowd-control. She does have a dependable, if somewhat weak, slow on her Q, but her only other form of crowd-control is a short-lasting snare that comes from her W, XXXFocusedYYResolve. This snare is quite unreliable, however, as it requires XXXKarma to first be tethered to an enemy for two seconds and this often gives the enemy enough time to untether with the use of some gap closer or increased mobility.

Early Game – Gathering Fire

As XXXTore mentioned at the beginning, XXXKarma’s strongest point is her powerful early game. Because she is a ranged support, she gets to enjoy numerous advantages that melee supports like XXXNautilus and XXXTahmYYKench do not.

“She does very well in the laning phase,” says XXXTore, “that's her strength as a poke champ.”

XXXKarma will excel in lane due to the fact that she can dish out serious damage through poke and also the fact that she herself is impervious to poke due to her range and her shield.

Her power comes specifically from her Q, XXXInnerYYFlame, particularly when it is enhanced by her ultimate ability, XXXMantra. All throughout the laning phase you can exert a lot of pressure by threatening the enemy with your Q and the possibility of using your empowered Q as well. Be sure to avoid the minion wave where enemies will try to hide, as that will not only put your ultimate ability to waste, sending it on a 45 second cooldown, but it will also push the wave, which might not suit your botlaner.

Due to her poke-prowess, XXXKarma is best picked with a poking botlaner to compliment her.

“Poke or long-ranged ADC work best,” says XXXTore, “Ezreal, Caitlyn, or Ashe, for example.”

Her W, XXXFocusedYYResolve, and E, XXXInspire, both allow XXXKarma to protect her ally in skirmishes and team fights, and so even immobile, extra vulnerable, botlaners should be safe with her by their side. XXXKarma works well with attack-speed-reliant botlaners like XXXVayne, XXXXayah or XXXKog’Maw because she can utilize XXXArdentYYCenser extremely well with XXXInspire.

Late Game – XXXFocusedYYResolve

As the game goes on, you will want to shift your playstyle from aggressive to utility-oriented.

“I’d advise staying in the back,” says XXXTore, “and using XXXMantra only.”

Your goal in team fights is very simple – keep your carries alive. With your XXXMantra and XXXInspire combo, you can shield your entire team, therefore granting everyone protection, as well as attack speed from XXXArdentYYCenser.

The movement speed boost can come in clutch and save an ally from getting hit by a fatal skillshot. More importantly, it can be used to help mobilize your entire team at once and either forcefully engage the enemy team, or nimbly disengage from an unfavourable fight.

Good XXXKarma

XXXKarma brings a lot to the table with her early game poke and damage and her late-game ability to shield and buff her whole team with XXXArdentYYCenser. Picked with a poking or long-ranged botlaner or with a team of many attack-speed reliant champions, she will make her team incredibly difficult to deal with.