SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/how-to-play-ornn-like-an-lec-pro/blt1c3c55aa49790fe7

How To Play XXXOrnn Like An LEC Pro

We take a look at how XXXBwipo and XXXWunder play XXXOrnn so you can improve your own skills.
As one of three champions to have a pick-or-ban rate of over 90 percent at the 2020 World Championship, XXXOrnn was without a doubt king of the top lane during the tournament. Simply looking at XXXOrnn's stats is enough to understand that his strengths far outweigh his weaknesses, if he has any at all.

XXXOrnn was played heavily in the regular season, as well as playoffs and XXXWorlds, by top laners of all regions. From the LEC, XXXG2YYEsport's Martin "XXXWunder" Hansen and especially XXXFnatic's Gabriël “XXXBwipo” Rau showed XXXOrnn the most love at XXXWorlds. Here’s how these pros made the most of the XXXFireYYbelowYYtheYYMountain.

Strengths and… weaknesses?

XXXOrnn is a huge team player. Everything in his kit manages to bring some kind of benefit to his team. For starters, he is a master of crowd control, with slows, stuns, and skills to knock his opponents into the air all present in his kit. Additionally, he makes the crowd control of his allies all the more deadly with his ability to apply a special status effect called XXXBrittle.
XXXBrittle is applied to enemies that have been scorched by XXXOrnn’s XXXBellowsYYBreath (W) or XXXCallYYofYYtheYYForgeYYGod (R). Brittled enemies lose tenacity, which means crowd control applied to them thereafter lasts longer. This makes XXXOrnn a terrific pick in a team with high amounts of crowd control.

Another passive which is immensely valuable for XXXOrnn and his teammates is his XXXMasterYYCraftsman passive. XXXOrnn can upgrade one item per each ally into a superior version. For example, Infinity Edge can be upgraded to Molten Edge, or Redemption to Salvation. These items have permanently increased stats.

Finally, XXXOrnn’s team fighting prowess is second-to-none. Not only is he an incredible tank, but he's fantastic for initiating a fight and protecting allies by peeling damage away from them. His ultimate can also potentially turn the tide of any team fight.

Abilities

XXXLivingYYForge: This is a four-part passive. The first feature of the passive simply makes him all-around more durable. XXXOrnn is naturally tankier than most, thanks to a 10% bonus to his armour and magic resistance.

The second part of his passive is probably his signature feature. XXXLivingYYForge lets XXXOrnn craft non-consumable items from anywhere in the Rift. This is extremely valuable in his home of top lane, where any weakness or disadvantage can be brutally exploited. By not having to recall to purchase items, XXXOrnn can stay in lane for long periods of time and bulk up his creep score (CS). His opponent on the other hand will either have to either teleport or lose CS after he is forced to recall.

The third part of the passive is called XXXMasterYYCraftsman. XXXOrnn can upgrade his allies' items into versions with increased stats. This unique advantage tips the scales in XXXOrnn's team's favour in every single game.

Finally, there is XXXTemper, the fourth part of his passive. XXXOrnn's basic attacks and ultimate apply a unique status effect called XXXBrittle. XXXTemper knocks XXXBrittle enemies up briefly, and XXXBrittle enemies also take bonus damage when they are immobilized by XXXOrnn or his allies. This means that XXXOrnn has a lot of self-synergy, as well as synergy with other allies with a lot of crowd control. Picking XXXOrnn into a team composition with a lot of crowd control can only do you good.

XXXVolcanicYYRupture: After that mountain of a passive, we come to XXXOrnn's much more simple Q ability. Upon activation, XXXOrnn slams into the ground, creating a fissure in a target direction. This ability on its own functions as a little bit of damage and a slow effect. Usually though, this ability is used in conjunction with XXXSearingYYCharge (E), which makes it much more effective.

XXXBellowsYYBreath: XXXBellowsYYBreath is XXXOrnn's go-to for applying XXXBrittle, so it's useful in every single skirmish. It's also a reliable form of wave clear so, all in all, it's an extremely important part of his kit.

XXXSearingYYCharge: XXXOrnn charges forward, dealing damage to enemies he passes, then stops upon colliding with terrain – including the pillar created by XXXVolcanicYYRupture. Enemies nearby the collision are knocked into the air and take damage. This means that XXXOrnn can potentially knock-up an enemy twice, or even three times, in one combo.

One way to do this is by firstly activating your Q to create a pillar. Next, collide into the pillar with E to knock-up an enemy, and activate W to brittle them. Now brittle, the enemy will be knocked into the air again with an auto attack. You can add an additional knock-up into this combo by using your ultimate as well.

XXXCallYYofYYtheYYForgeYYGod: XXXOrnn’s ultimate is one of the best tools for engaging enemies in the game. This wide and long-ranged slow and knock-up rarely misses its target. It is especially deadly in closed quarters and tight spaces, such as in the jungle. It is also a great tool for following up on a fellow teammate’s engage, as targets already affected by CC will not be able to dodge.

Early Game

If XXXOrnn has any weak points, it's his early game. His weaknesses in the early game are those he shares with fellow immobile melee tanks. He will be vulnerable to being poked before he bulks up with items, and he will be susceptible to ganks whenever his Flash is down.

That being said, he has many advantages in lane that other champions don’t. For one, his XXXLivingYYForge passive allows him to stay in lane for longer periods of time. Unless XXXOrnn is gravely injured, he can stay in lane and continue to farm, while still progressing his item build. If you’re having a rough time in a particular matchup, you can buy a Chain Vest or Negatron Cloak just a few paces away from your opponent and then be in a much better position.

Past level six, XXXOrnn can look into Teleport-ganking bot lane or taking a walk to mid. His ultimate is extremely difficult to dodge, particularly if the enemy has lost their Flash or is in general immobile, like Syndra or Orianna.

Team fights

XXXOrnn is in his element come mid and late game, when team fights are more and more common. XXXOrnn plays many roles in a team fight and is effective at them all.

The most iconic role XXXOrnn plays is that of an initiator, and his extremely long-ranged ultimate is to thank. His ultimate is often a death sentence for whoever he chooses to target with it – doubly so when XXXOrnn is playing against immobile enemies. In the video below, XXXBwipo lands a four-man ultimate and controls the battlefield entirely by separating key members of the enemy team from each other, leading to the enemy jungler’s death and XXXFnatic securing Dragon right after.

As a heavy duty tank, XXXOrnn can stay in the middle of the fight or in the enemy backline and soak up a lot of damage for his team. If you have a very scary, but also very fragile, midlaner or botlaner, XXXOrnn can keep them safe by peeling enemies off with his constant onslaught of CC. With the use of XXXBellowsYYBreath and XXXCallYYofYYtheYYForgeYYGod, he can keep applying XXXBrittle to enemies all fight long to deal extra damage and pile on more and more crowd control.

In the video below, XXXBwipo manages to keep three members of XXXTopYYEsports completely away from the action thanks to a well-placed ultimate, XXXOrnn’s tankiness, and an abundance of crowd control.