SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/mad-kaiser-and-rge-vander-break-down-this-season's-support-meta/blte7822744fe3306f2

XXXMAD XXXKaiser and XXXRGE XXXVander Break Down This Season's Support Meta

The support role is the heart of almost any team, so we asked XXXMAD XXXLions’ XXXKaiser and XXXRogue’s XXXVander for their thoughts on the support meta, and tips on the top champions this past Summer Season.
Support is often an overlooked role in XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends, as plenty of players just want to dish out damage – but behind any great team composition is an effective support player.

We are joined by two world-class supports in XXXMAD XXXLions' Norman "XXXKaiser" XXXKaiser and XXXRogue's Oskar "XXXVander" Bogdan, to reflect on how the support role – perhaps the most underappreciated position in XXXLeague – has felt in the Summer Season. Were they overpowered or underwhelming? And which supports can we expect to see on the World Championship stage in the weeks to come?

Support build

All in all, both XXXKaiser and XXXVander were satisfied with the role in the Summer Season.
“You were not chained to your XXXADC all the time,” says XXXKaiser, “so you could roam a lot with your jungler and impact the map.” It’s no coincidence that the supports with the most playtime – XXXThresh, XXXNautilus, XXXBard and others – are incredibly potent roamers. XXXVander likewise thought that the role was powerful in this season, with support being able to exert a lot of pressure both bottom lane and in other lanes through ganks.

Even though supports were in a solid position this season, XXXKaiser did have one complaint. “Most of the meta picks were also not very skill expressive,” says XXXKaiser, who prefers to play more dynamic champions. If he had to choose just one champion to play for the rest of his career, XXXKaiser is clear: it would be XXXRakan. “Most other supports are very one-dimensional in what they want to do and how they do it,” says XXXKaiser, “but XXXRakan has a lot of options.” Different XXXRakan players under different circumstances may build one thing or another, prioritise one ability or another, or go with entirely different rune setups – and still, it is all viable. "Every new game requires you to think about what is optimal," says XXXKaiser.

XXXVander thinks that the current meta is fine, but he would also like to see some more variety in the support role in professional play. “We didn't have a meta with XXXXBrand, or XXXZyra, or XXXXerath for a long time”, he says. “That might be fun.” Mages have never been very prominent in professional play, where melee tanks are still the top dog.

Nautilus build & XXXTahm XXXKench build

XXXNautilus and XXXTahm XXXKench are the old guard of professional play, and they have remained dominant in the support role across all regions in the Summer Season as well.

Although XXXNautilus has always been a staple pick, he was especially popular this season, boasting the highest playrate and the highest presence in playoffs. “He’s very good into the immobile [bot lane] meta,” says XXXKaiser, explaining XXXNautilus’ recent prominence. The most valuable thing XXXNautilus brings to the table is his crowd control, and this is something that immobile botlaners are extra vulnerable to. “He also worked really well with most junglers,” adds XXXKaiser, “and midlaners which require setup.” XXXNautilus is a superb roamer, and he can execute successful ganks even when his midlaner has no form of engage of their own.

XXXTahm XXXKench is similar to XXXNautilus in many regards, as they are both tanky melee supports with consistent ways to engage. XXXTahm XXXKench’s ultimate, XXXAbyssalCCVoyage, is exceptionally useful in professional play, where communication and teamwork are always present. Also invaluable is his XXXDevourCC(W), which is particularly useful in this meta to protect the botlaner from XXXNautilus and XXXThresh hooks. “Nothing except XXXTahm saves you from XXXNautilus’ ultimate,” says XXXKaiser.

We will undoubtedly see both of these supports continue to wreak havoc on the Worlds stage.

XXXThresh was XXXKaiser’s MVP. “I think XXXThresh was the best support this season“, he succinctly says. Though XXXThresh trailed just a little bit behind XXXNautilus in number of picks, he was the support with the highest presence in the regular season, with a staggering pick and ban rate of 92 percent.

“The meta shifted towards more immobile XXXADCs and midlaners,” explains XXXKaiser, “so [XXXThresh] got progressively more important as the season went on." XXXDarkCCPassageCC(W) proved to be invaluable for the likes of XXXAshe, XXXSenna, and XXXAphelios, all of whom saw a lot of play in the Summer Season. This ability effectively gifted them a gap-closer, which allowed them to play with more gusto, and take more risks.

"XXXThresh is also somewhere in the top three for me," agrees XXXVander, "I just think that he is a bit less reliable than XXXNautilus." While XXXThresh’s hook is every bit as deadly as XXXNautilus’ – if not more so – XXXThresh is, on the whole, squishier than XXXNautilus and he requires a bit more thinking to succeed with.

If he could only play one champion for the rest of his career, XXXVander would go with XXXThresh. "He's the most fun to play for sure,” he says. “He's always kind of useful I would say. He can win lane and he's got a high skill cap.”

Bard build

XXXBard has always been a popular pick outside of professional play, as a dynamic, quirky champion with fun, roam-oriented gameplay. “Most people thought he was too weak in lane and too vulnerable,” says XXXKaiser, explaining his previous absence in professional play. However, this season, a few things contributed to his popularity.

According to XXXKaiser and XXXVander, the biggest factor might be the prevalence of immobile botlaners in this meta. “Most of the carries that were played were really immobile," explains XXXVander, “and XXXBard is really good against those because they can't really dodge his ult.” XXXBard also received some buffs, whereas champions who he was vulnerable against were nerfed. “Most tank supports like Naut and Leona received damage nerfs,” says XXXKaiser, “which is why he can now survive lane with XXXGuardian.”

XXXYuumi build

Although enchanters – most notably XXXKarma, XXXLulu, and XXXYuumi, were more popular in this season than in previous ones – they are still quite situational. It was mainly XXXYuumi who enjoyed the spotlight in this season due to the fact that she is the safest to pick. "XXXYuumi was the only blind-pickable champion out of those three,” explains XXXKaiser. With XXXKarma and XXXLulu you were always at risk of getting counter-picked by a tank support like XXXNautilus or XXXThresh.

“Most of the meta tank supports don’t smash them straight-up in a 2v2,” says XXXKaiser, “but it’s not possible to survive ganks.” In fact, enchanters will generally do well against melee supports due to the fact that they can poke down. However, these same tanks possess a great deal of crowd control and engage, and enchanters are notoriously squishy. “A lot of the hard engage supports kinda counter them,” says XXXVander, “so it's quite hard to blind pick them in my opinion.”

Supporting Statements

While the support role saw the brief return of enchanters on the professional stage, and a few surprises with XXXThresh and XXXBard, the champion pool hasn't changed much. The usual suspects, engage-heavy tank supports like XXXNautilus and XXXTahm XXXKench, still get the greatest amount of playtime as of yet. Will we see more changes on the Worlds stage when the top international teams collide later this month, or will the likes of XXXNautilus and XXXTahm XXXKench continue to thrive? We’ll soon find out – watch this space.