SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/meta-reflection-into-the-jungle-with-sk-trick,-mad-shadow,-and-rge-inspired/blt7a7054fa7a9631af

XXXSett & XXXVolibear & XXXLeeCCsin XXXbuild - Jungle Meta with XXXSKCCXXXTrick, XXXMADCCXXXShadow, and XXXRGE XXXInspired

The jungle role has never been more important, and after an exciting Summer Season, we quiz XXXTrick, XXXShadow, and XXXInspired on their thoughts on the meta and the dominant champions.

The jungle role is perhaps the most dynamic role in XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends due to the continuous deluge of patch and meta changes that junglers have to adapt to. To reflect on how the jungle role has felt throughout this past season, we are joined by XXXSKCCGaming's Kim "XXXTrick" Gang-yun, XXXMADCCLions' Zhiqiang "XXXShadow" Zhao, and Rogue's Kacper "XXXInspired" Słoma.

Best jungle picks

Looking at all of the popular picks throughout the season, we can see that both tanky and carry-type champions were successful at different points in summer. Aggressive playmakers like XXXSett and XXXLeeCCSin were at the top in the end, with tankier options like XXXVolibear and XXXTrundle trailing slightly behind. “At the start it was fun,” says XXXShadow of the Summer Season, “because XXXLeeCCSin was the best jungler in that patch.” But he enjoyed it less as the meta began to shift towards tanks instead. And in the playoffs, we are seeing more variety once again, with XXXHecarim, XXXLillia, and XXXEvelynn gaining prominence.

“I think it was pretty balanced all in all,” says XXXTrick. Jungle in the summer season was balanced both in terms of picks – with tanks and carry junglers alike getting their time in the spotlight – and in terms of strength. According to our pros, jungle felt neither too weak nor overpowered. “It felt really powerful mostly in the early game,” said XXXShadow, “where you have the most agency and are the one deciding what to play around.”

When it comes to the particular picks that dominated the jungle in summer, XXXSett, XXXLeeCCSin, and XXXVolibear sat squarely at the top.

XXXSett XXXbuild

Both of the newly released junglers, XXXSett and XXXLillia, are seeing a lot of action on the Rift, particularly in the jungle. XXXSett is right at the top, with a presence of over 50 percent in the regular season – with more picks and bans popping up in playoffs too. According to XXXTrick, XXXSett was easily the Summer Season MVP of the jungle. “He fits every team comp,” says XXXTrick, “and he has engage, tankiness, and damage.”

“He basically has the best kit you can ever get for a jungler,” agrees XXXInspired.

“He was very powerful,” says XXXShadow. “He had very easy ganks with XXXHexflash and his base damage was very high.” XXXHexflash does indeed play a key part in making XXXSett as deadly as he is. He’s at his most lethal when he can quickly close the gap between himself and his opponent, and XXXHexflash makes that possible when Flash is no longer available.

[XXXSETT] WAS SO POWERFUL BECAUSE HE HAD VERY EASY GANKS WITH XXXHEXFLASH
–ZHIQIANG "XXXSHADOW" ZHAO

XXXVolibear XXXbuild

XXXShadow, meanwhile, named XXXVolibear as his MVP of the jungle this season, and it's hard to argue otherwise. XXXVolibear boasted the highest presence among junglers, having been picked or banned just over 75 percent of the time.

XXXVolibear became a particular menace in the jungle thanks to the rework he received in patch 10.11. “He became a first pick champion,” says XXXInspired, “whereas before he was only played really rarely in support.” In the Spring Season, shortly before the rework occurred, XXXVolibear was played a mere 26 times globally in the support role, with a couple of picks off-role. To put that in perspective, before the rework, in patch 10.25, he had a presence of 0 percent. Since the rework, in the XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends European Championship (LEC) Summer Season alone, he reached 75 percent presence. “Since XXXVolibear got the rework he is by far the best jungler,” says XXXShadow.

THE REWORK HAD A HUGE EFFECT – HE BECAME A FIRST PICK CHAMPION
–KACPER "XXXINSPIRED" SŁOMA
“After the rework his jungle clear is so fast,” says XXXTrick. “Everyone has to pick him.” The fast clear, high mobility and damage, on top of the debilitating crowd control, makes it clear why he was such a game changer in the wake of his rework.

And while the recent nerfs have wounded the bear, he has indisputably left his mark on the Summer Season and contributed to many victories – or losses, depending on which team you’re cheering for.

XXXLeeCCsin XXXbuild

XXXLeeCCSin, meanwhile, is a staple in professional play no matter what meta he finds himself in. Between his ability to execute successful ganks with his gap closer and kick, the damage he can inflict when he gets ahead, and the potential for solo drakes, there’s a lot for junglers to like about XXXLeeCCSin.

HE HAS INSANE OBJECTIVE CONTROL EARLY GAME
–KIM "XXXTRICK" GANG-YUN

“He’s strong in early game, and you can also make plays later with him, so the champ is always pretty useful,” says XXXInspired. “But I think recently he wasn’t that strong, and people just overrated him a bit.” While XXXInspired admits that XXXLeeCCSin doesn’t feel especially powerful at the current state of the game, the numbers indicate that even when he is on the weaker side in terms of balance, he is still strong enough to be a priority in professional play. “XXXLeeCCSin is always good in the right hands,” says XXXShadow, “no matter how many nerfs he gets.”

Best picks Worlds 2021

Looking at the trends from the summer regular season and the playoffs, we can expect continued dominance from XXXSett and XXXLeeCCSin, while XXXVolibear might become less popular due to the recent nerfs he has received.

Aside from XXXLillia, XXXHecarim, and XXXEvelynn, who have gained priority in champion select, it’s worth keeping an eye out for the return of XXXRiverCCShen. We have seen him dominate in the LEC finals and in the XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends Championship Series (LCS) semi-finals as well.

Whatever happens with the champion picks, it seems a given that the jungle will remain powerful and exciting to watch.