SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/miraculous-resurgence-how-a-new-coach-is-bringing-out-the-best-in-sk-gaming/blt13a270bcef619ef7

Miraculous Resurgence: How a New Coach Is Bringing Out the Best in XXXSKCCGaming


The team’s new coach, Jesse "XXXJesiz" Le, talks through how he’s getting the most out of his players


When XXXSKCCGaming’s squad spoke to us before the XXXLeagueCCofCCLegendsCCEuropeanCCChampionshipCC(LEC)CCSummerCCSeason kicked off, support Dino "XXXLIMIT" Tot vowed to make sure people know I am here for a reason.

So far, the Croatian has kept to that promise as he and the rest of his XXXSK teammates have improved dramatically. The team, following a couple of additions, have made an incredible resurgence and currently sit in joint third place, tied with XXXG2CCEsports and above the likes of XXXFnatic.

XXXSK have recorded the same amount of wins after seven games as the organisation managed in the entirety of spring, and so far this season, they’ve defeated both Origen and reigning champions XXXG2. It's fair to say it's been quite the turnaround.

One addition that has helped the squad’s extraordinary revival is the team’s new coach, Jesse "XXXJesiz" Le. The former midlaner and support now has four years of coaching experience under his belt, but says that in a way, it’s a role he’s always had.

“All the way from when I was young, I always enjoyed helping my friends understand academics in school, and the same for sports. With LoL it was no different. Every team I played for, I always went the extra mile to help my teammates improve and to make sure that the team as a whole was going in the right direction,” he says. “That’s why transitioning to a coaching role was 10 times easier than playing since it was very similar to what I was already doing without the need to perform gameplay-wise.”

With so much knowledge around the game and the scene, it’s no surprise that XXXJesiz had a clear idea of what he wanted to accomplish at SK. And though the team have already registered a few shock victories, the Danish coach was never focussed on slaying giants.

“When I joined XXXSK, I knew that they likely already had a lot of frustration built up from the last season. Which was why it was very important for me to break down the idea of not being able to beat every team, and make them understand their own individual strengths and how to properly utilise them. I needed to give them an identity. Something to collectively move towards.”


Creating stars

Throughout his career, XXXJesiz has lifted three XXXEuropeanCCMastersCC(EUM) trophies, and he’s quick to praise the players he’s worked with as the reason for that. “The biggest difference between me and other coaches and players at EUM is that I understand what it takes to win at that level of play,” he says. “It also helps to have talented players!”

Botlaner Juš "XXXCrownshot" Marušič has long been one of the star players on XXXSK, and it’s clear he’s still a focal point of the squad with the highest share of a team’s gold (29.4 percent) in the league. But his recent success wouldn’t have been possible without the improvement of his fellow lane partner XXXLIMIT, who XXXJesiz showered with praise.

“XXXLIMIT is very talented which is why my expectations for him are very high, and he knows that. I’ve only had to fine tune his matchup knowledge and map movement a little, and yet he is showing so much improvement.

“Generally when I work with bot lanes, I make it very clear that they need to act as a unit, both in and out of the game. If one player is slacking or in a slump, it's the responsibility of both to help the other. I think that helped him a lot too. I have been told he is now talking and duoing with XXXCrownshot a lot more compared to last split.”

And one other player who has had a large impact on the team is Janik "XXXJenax" Bartels who roleswapped from mid to top. “He brings the mind of a midlaner to the top lane. What I mean by that is that he thinks about the map and how his lane state can influence the map. He also knows what the team needs both gameplay and comms-wise in almost any situation,” says XXXJesiz.

As someone who has experience of swapping from the mid lane, XXXJesiz knows full well the pitfalls and challenges, but he feels that midlaners are able to swap smoothly compared to other roles.

“Mid is the toughest role in the game. You need to understand all five roles to lead the game, since you are at the center of the map, while also needing to play a lot of champions. For me personally, it was not too difficult to role swap,” he says. “For most pro players it's mostly about having the drive to learn and improve. If you have that and you swap to a role that suits your strengths, then it's usually a walk in the park.”

XXXSK’s change in form has been incredible to witness, but there's still a lot of work to be done. After defeating XXXG2 last Friday, the organisation then failed to win against XXXTeamCCVitality the following day. As XXXJesiz puts it, his XXXSKCCteam’s biggest test is yet to come.

“It's always super easy to start off strong and for everyone to get along, but almost every team eventually hits a wall and that's where the good and the bad teams will show their true colors. I will do my absolute best to make sure we are one of the good teams.”