SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/reflections-on-the-meta-%E2%80%93-into-the-mid-lane-with-humanoid-and-febiven/bltd43ab3abd7ed9d28

Reflections On The Meta – Into the Mid Lane With XXXHumanoid and XXXFebiven

Mid lane in XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends is arguably the most popular role in the game, as a strong midlaner can drastically change the outcome of a game if they get the opportunity to do so. This is also where you’ll most often see the team captains, or those teammates who form the core of their roster. We’ve turned to XXXMADCCLions midlaner Marek “XXXHumanoid” Brázda and XXXMisfitsCCGaming’s Fabian “XXXFebiven” Diepstraten to help us take a look at how the mid lane meta is shaping up in the run up to the World Championship, and how it’s changed since the Spring Season.

The XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends European Championship (LEC) Spring Season ended with quite a few unique champion picks in the mid lane, far more than the previous season. With that in mind, it might come as a surprise that XXXHumanoid found the previous year’s meta more enjoyable. “I think Spring was less fun compared to last year, but still quite fun,” he says.

XXXFebiven, meanwhile, has a more positive view of this year’s meta. “My experience playing mid lane in spring was pretty fun I would say, especially when we had our winning streak, and there were a lot of fun champions to play. I especially remember my XXXQiyana and XXXDiana games.” And both players seem to be in agreement with regards to their roles' strengths during the Spring Season.“I would say that I had a pretty high impact on the games,” says XXXFebiven. And XXXHumanoid agrees. “It’s for sure one of the strongest roles.”

So, which champions currently reign supreme in the mid lane?

XXXAzirCCBuild

XXXAzir remains one of the most highly contested picks this summer, solidifying himself as the second most-played champion in the mid lane, with nearly twice as many appearances compared to the Spring Season. So why has XXXAzir remained so popular among the pros?

XXXHumanoid thinks there are quite a few reasons. “He doesn't really have any hard counters, so he’s blindpickable, he has push priority in almost every matchup, and he’s really good against tanks which were pretty strong this season.” Being a blind pickable champion in the mid lane is a big deal, as it means opponents are less likely to have the opportunity to counter the champion with someone they know will give them a hard time. These types of champions are always strong picks in the meta at pro level, and our most-picked champion in summer is no exception.

XXXFebiven chimes in with a bit more insight as to why XXXAzir is such a good blind pick champion.

“I think the reason that XXXAzir was one of the most picked champions in summer was because he's just a really solid champion overall. There’s a lot of things that make him blindpickable. He has lane priority, he has an escape, and he has good scaling. It's kind of everything that you want from a champion for mid lane, and he is pretty hard to punish because he is so safe, so you get away with the scaling that usually ends up winning the game.”

XXXOrinnaCCBuild

Meanwhile, XXXOrianna has shot up out of nowhere to become the most contested pick for the mid lane in the Summer Season. Like XXXEzreal and XXXThresh, XXXOrianna is another of those champions that keeps finding a way back into the meta every so often, and when they do, they’re usually the most-picked in their roles. So why does this happen?

In XXXOrianna’s case, one of the main reasons for her return this time is due to changes to the overall meta. Those champions that were best at countering her have received XXXnerfs, shifting them out of the meta and allowing her an opportunity to come back into the spotlight.
XXXOrianna is at her strongest when there are more immobile, punishable champions being played, as there are in the current meta, but she struggles in a meta that is dominated by assassins and slippery champions.

XXXHumanoid is no stranger to playing XXXOrianna. He’s a pillar for his team who can hold his own when he needs to, but he’s also able to make plays that completely twist the outcome of the game. Here’s just one example of XXXHumanoid showing off his XXXOrianna skills in an incredibly synergistic play with his teammate Zhiqiang "XXXShad0w" Zhao.


XXXFebiven thinks that China’s XXXLeagueCCofCCLegendsCCProCCLeagueCC(LPL) has had a strong influence on XXXOrianna’s return to the meta. “I think she is seeing more play because the XXXLPL teams have been putting a lot of priority on the pick, especially XXXRookieCC[SongCC"Rookie"CCEui-jin] and XXXknightCC[ZhuoCC"knight"CCDing]. They've been playing a lot of XXXOrianna and I think people just kind of picked up on that.” It's not uncommon for teams to start testing a champion simply because it’s seeing success in another region, as has been the case with the prioritisation of XXXKarthus in XXXjungle or XXXSett in XXXsupport, first in the XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends Champions XXXKoreaCC(LCK) and later spreading to other leagues.

XXXCorki, XXXSyndra, XXXTwistedCCFate, and XXXZoe are a few of the other champions you’ll see getting more love lately, and XXXLeblanc also saw a resurgence in popularity as the season came to a close. XXXSyndra, meanwhile, received a multitude of bans. In fact, she received more than any other champion in the mid lane, and the third highest number of bans overall. This is in part due to the sheer amount of agency she gives to the person piloting her, and the massive amount of damage potential she provides. Once she has reached certain item and level breakpoints, XXXSyndra can often XXXone-shot the enemy carry, and there’s not much that can be done to stop her. She can also lock up multiple targets with XXXScatterCCtheCCWeakCC(E), which can end up being a huge disruption in team fights. She can also use the same move to look for picks, which often happens when the enemy fails to respect the potential XXXSyndra holds.

XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends XXXWorldsCC2021 

XXXFebiven hopes that no big changes come in that might shake up the meta before XXXWorlds. “Honestly, I don't really want anything to change that much. I need a little bit of time when a lot of changes come in, so I’d rather have it kind of stale and kept as it is right now. This is where I can really master my playstyle and be the carry I need to be.”

When pressed on whether there are any champions he wishes were part of in the meta, he did have a few ideas. “I would like to see more assassins. I think it would just be more fun to see the likes of XXXZed and XXXLeBlanc, maybe some XXXFizz and XXXEkko.”

XXXHumanoid, on the other hand, has some changes he’d like to see sooner rather than later. “I hope more assassins will be played, like XXXQiyana and XXXAkali. And also that champions like XXXAzir and XXXZoe will be out of the meta, because XXXAzir has a really non-interactive lane phase and there's not much to do against him other than wave clear,” he says. “And XXXZoe because her matchups are often decided completely on RNG depending on which or how many summoner spells drop from minions.”

It seems safe to say that our midlaners would like some more flashy champions that they can use to style on their opponents, and maybe even create the next goosebump-inducing XXXFaker vs XXXRyu “XXXZed vs XXXZed'' moment.

All in all, mid lane hasn’t changed much at its core, but the Summer Season ended up with a more diverse roster than usual,, with more unique champions played in mid especially compared to in spring. XXXAzir, XXXZoe, and XXXLeblanc still remain as some of the favourites among pros as we see the return of some old favourites who were staples of the meta in past seasons, like XXXOrianna and XXXTwistedCCFate. While XXXTwistedCCFate received some changes which seem to have pushed him out of the meta a little bit, XXXOrianna looks to be a highly contested pick going into the World Championship.