SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/%E2%80%9Ci-liked-the-meta-more-than-in-spring%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-reflecting-on-summer-season%E2%80%99s-top-lane-with-mad-lions%E2%80%99-orome/blte7d733406124c06c

“I Liked the Meta More Than in Spring” – Reflecting on Summer Season’s Top Lane with XXXMADCCLions’ XXXOrome

XXXMADCCLions’ Andrei “XXXOrome” Popa discusses the Summer Season top lane meta.
Top lane can be the most unforgiving and volatile lane in XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends, and this was no different in the Summer Season. But which champions dominated the lane during the season, and how did it feel to play? We turned to XXXMADCCLions toplaner Andrei “XXXOrome” Popa to find out more.

Overall Thoughts

In an ideal meta, the toplaner should be able to sufficiently influence the game once they leave their top lane island and join the team in mid game. Toplaners should also ideally be able to choose between a large number of champions, since the top lane technically does have a lot of options.

In metas where the top lane seems weaker, you will often see toplaners feeling like, no matter what they do, they don’t really have an impact on the game –a sentiment some players expressed in the Spring Season of this year. Another problem occurs when toplaners can only play one type of champion, even though there are a lot of top lane champions out there.

With all that in mind, was top lane underwhelming to play this season? “Not that much,” says XXXOrome, “maybe a bit.” This is by no means unreasonable – it wouldn’t be fun for the players or audience if one role was incredibly strong either.

In terms of variety, we can see that both tanks and more aggressive picks were options in this season.“I liked the meta more than in spring,” says XXXOrome, ”but it still felt like bot lane dictates who takes XXXHerald generally.” For those that might have forgotten, the top lane meta in spring mostly centered around XXXSett and XXXAatrox, but also suffered through a phase where XXXSoraka was pick-or-ban worthy.

A higher emphasis on XXXRiftCCHerald this season is making botlaners rotate to the top lane faster, which forces toplaners to react. Early skirmishes in top river interrupt toplaners who might be trying to farm up or secure kills. “I hope swapping from bot to take XXXHerald will not happen as much anymore,” says XXXOrome, when asked what he would change about the meta for the future.

XXXOrnn XXXbuild

In summer, the most played top laners were XXXOrnn, XXXGangplank, and XXXRenekton. XXXOrnn has been a staple in professional play since his release as a very potent tank with excellent team fighting capabilities. Also noteworthy is his unique ability to upgrade his allies’ items into superior versions. This season, his pick and ban presence exceeded 50 percent, and he was picked the most often out of all of the toplaners.

When it comes to this season in particular, his popularity might have spiked due to the fact that teams needed a way to deal with kiting and enemy peel. “If you play top lane against, for example, XXXAshe and XXXNautilus, you will feel super useless,” says XXXOrome, “unless you are XXXGangplank or XXXOrnn.”

What XXXOrnn and XXXGangplank both have is range – a way to get to the backline and dish out crowd control and damage. “Any champions that need to get close to do something are kinda useless,” elaborates XXXOrome, “due to the nature of the meta in other roles.” Getting close to an XXXAshe who is backed up by XXXThresh or XXXNautilus – or to XXXCaitlyn with her 650 attack range, or XXXSenna who can rival her – is nigh impossible for most champions.

To succeed with XXXOrnn, you have to survive his early game. He bulks up later on in the game and is an incredible asset in team fights, but he may struggle before he gets his levels and items. “Just take scaling runes and give up creep score,” advises XXXOrome. Losing lane as XXXOrnn isn’t that big of a deal because XXXCallCCofCCtheCCForgeCCGodCC(R) will never not be a gamechanger.

XXXGangplank XXXbuild

XXXOrome named XXXGangplank the most impactful top lane champion in the Summer Season. XXXGangplank boasts a presence of just over 70 percent, the highest of all of the toplaners, including the most-played XXXOrnn. Like XXXOrnn, XXXGangplank is something of a staple in professional play and manages to stay relevant throughout the seasons.

“He has really strong first levels,” says XXXOrome, “and usually you can snowball this into a lead.” This is quite different from XXXOrnn, who may struggle through lane but will always be incredibly useful in the late game. XXXGangplank’s strong early game transcends the top lane too, as his ultimate, XXXCannonCCBarrage, can influence other lanes as well.

“Your early levels are super oppressive, to the point that it really limits what you can play against him,” says XXXOrome, who advises that you take advantage of XXXGangplank’s early game strength to snowball into mid game, and secure a quick win.

XXXRenekton XXXbuild

Of the top three, XXXRenekton is kind of an odd man out, especially in XXXOrome’s eyes. “I think he is not that useful in the current meta,” he explains, “as there is too much crowd control.” While XXXRenekton enjoys a decent playrate, with a 30 percent presence, and a surprisingly high win-rate of 69 percent, it’s true that crowd control can be his kryptonite.

His popularity can be attributed to his strong early game. “[He is popular] because of his laning phase,” says XXXOrome, “and ability to Flash on priority targets.” XXXRenekton can be extremely oppressive when he chooses a target, as he has a dash as well as Flash at his disposal, as well as a lot of damage.

“You can impact other lanes and transfer your lead,” suggests XXXOrome. “That’s better than playing for yourself as a toplaner,” he adds. XXXRenekton’s strong teleport ganks and roams can cause a great ripple in the game.

Prominent Playoffs Picks

In the top lane, the playoff picks differed only slightly from the regular season. XXXGangplank’s presence increased – he was picked or banned in nearly 90 percent of the playoff games. XXXOrnn is a strong second, having been picked 10 times, and XXXGangplank 11. XXXRenekton, on the other hand, is now trailing behind some new faces – XXXShen and XXXCamille.

XXXShen has shot up in priority and had a presence of 73 percent in the playoffs. It’s worth noting that XXXShen was played in the jungle role as well, so he’s effectively a flex pick that we can expect to see a lot of on the Worlds stage as well. His ultimate can potentially turn a lost bot lane team fight into a double kill and a Dragon for his allies. XXXShen offers global presence in the game, which makes taking objectives like Dragons, XXXHerald, or turrets a lot easier.

If XXXOrome could pick just one top lane champion to play for the rest of his career, it would be XXXCamille. Unlike XXXShen, who had a presence of just three percent before the playoffs, XXXCamille did enjoy some spotlight in the regular season. However, her presence nearly tripled between the regular season and playoffs.

A very strong XXXCamille will be able to single out a key target in a team fight with her XXXHextechCCUltimatumCC(R) and, hopefully, secure a kill without having to worry about anyone peeling her off. This is a very valuable ability in a meta where XXXNautilus, XXXThresh, and XXXTahmCCKench still top the support charts.