SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/team-vitality%E2%80%99s-milica-%E2%80%9Ci-hope-i-can-live-up-to-expectations%E2%80%9D/bltbea8aa15dd686c9e

XXXTeamCCVitality’s XXXMilica: “I hope I can live up to expectations”

Midlaner XXXMilica speaks about upsetting XXXG2CCEsports, and how XXXVitality are truly gearing up for the rest of the Summer Season.

To put it simply, XXXTeamCCVitality’s 2020 Spring Season didn’t go according to plan. With visa issues preventing Aljoša "XXXMilica" Kovandžić from joining up with the main roster, followed by 10 weeks of play that netted the team only two wins, it would be fair to say that the French organisation did not live up to expectations. It’s now clear that XXXMilica was one of the missing puzzle pieces.

The Serbian midlaner was highly sought after following his impressive run in the Spanish LVP SuperLiga Orange, as well as his performance during XXXEuropeanCCMastersCCSummerCC2019, where his XXXVodafoneCCGiants side dropped to BIG in the grand finals. His midlane skills and varied champion pool were enough to impress XXXTeamCCVitality, and fans of the French side have been keen to see him in action ever since.

And now in the Summer Season, after some roster changes across the board, and with XXXMilica finally able to play, XXXVitality have seen definite improvements, already surpassing their Spring Season win total with four wins to date. This is XXXVitality as they were meant to be.

“I think that after the visa issues and the disappointing Spring Season, everyone was excited for our actual intended roster to play the game,” XXXMilica tells us. “Now I hope I can live up to the expectations that everyone, including myself, has for me.”

“I WAS VERY EAGER TO SHOW WHAT WE ARE ACTUALLY CAPABLE OF IN SUMMER.”
–ALJOŠA "XXXMILICA" KOVANDŽIĆ“

Those expectations are high among XXXVitality fans. The team finished second in the 2018 Summer Season, third in the playoffs, and ended up going to the World Championship that year. Since then, they haven’t progressed past the first round of the playoffs, and then came last in the 2020 Spring Season. There’s pressure to deliver, but luckily for XXXVitality, XXXMilica isn’t feeling it.

“I would say that I didn’t feel that much pressure, because my impact on our Spring Season was very limited,” says XXXMilica. “However, watching the team from the sidelines in spring, I was very eager to show what we are actually capable of in summer.”

Of those two wins last season, XXXVitality could only topple XXXSKCCGaming, who finished ninth, and beat out XXXFnatic in the final week, who had already qualified for the playoffs. So far in summer, XXXVitality have notched up four wins, including XXXSK, XXXFC Schalke 04, XXXOrigen, and most notably, XXXG2CCEsports. There’s still work to be done if XXXVitality are aiming for a playoff spot, and XXXMilica knows that it might not be so easy the next time they go up against XXXG2.

“Personally, I feel like the win against XXXG2 didn’t really feel the way it usually should,” he says. “They were not up to their usual standards. Since we had three roster changes between the seasons, our team is still trying to find synergy and consistency.”

“While our wins looked pretty clean, we did not manage to actually get into the game in our losses, and I think we can improve on that for the coming weeks.”

Even though XXXG2 have not looked like their usual selves this season, a win over them is always impressive. XXXMilica’s XXXJayce play was a particular highlight in the game, going 6/0/8 against LEC veteran Rasmus “XXXCaps” Winther in his debut weekend. The midlaner also wants to make sure the rest of the teams in the league know that it’s not the only champion he’s proficient with.

“I sure hope I can repeat that level of performance,” XXXMilica says. “I think some teams have already banned my XXXJayce this season after that game, which felt pretty nice. I think it’s more of a niche pick however, and I hope it won’t be the only champion I will be having these kinds of performances on.

“In mid lane, I would say Marek ‘XXXHumanoid’ Brázda and Caps are the best players in the league at the moment, because they have great lane presence and are really skilful when it comes to moving around the map.”

XXXMADCCLions and XXXRogue are sitting at joint top of the standings at the moment, but the league is wide open, with a lot of teams only a few games behind. XXXVitality, along with four other teams, are currently tied in fifth, making this season tough to call. XXXMilica is enjoying how tight the teams are during his first season, but he’s also looking forward to being able to play them face-to-face in the studio, as opposed to over the internet.

“I really like that every team in the XXXLEC seems to be super competitive this year, which feels to me like it’s never been the case before to this extent. Of course, with the current situation and playing the games from home, I’m super excited to actually start playing from the studio and embrace the real XXXLEC experience.”

The goals for XXXMilica are fairly simple: compete with the best XXXLEC midlaners and make it to Worlds. He has already shown he can beat XXXCaps once, so now it’s a case of whether he can consistently show that same level of performance as XXXVitality look to continuously improve. Halfway through the season, playoffs are still within reach, so it’s now up to XXXMilica and XXXVitality to grasp their opportunity.