SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/%E2%80%9Cwhat-happened-online-happened%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-rogue-explain-how-they-came-to-relish-playing-from-home/bltd7b73d3b01da45a9

“What Happened? Online Happened” – XXXRogue Explain How They Came To Relish Playing From Home

After a rocky Spring Season, XXXRogue have bounced back in a big way. Here, two of the team’s star players talk playing at home, defeating XXXFnatic, and qualifying for Worlds.

Although restrictions around the globe are beginning to ease, many of us remain confined to our homes due to the pandemic – and that includes esports pros. While sitting at your home battlestation rather than an onstage setup might not sound like worlds apart, competitions like the XXXLeagueCCofCCLegendsCCEuropeanCCChampionship have proved what a difference playing online truly makes for professional play.

As is the case in all walks of life, certain players have adapted to playing at home better than others. XXXRogue’s performance playing from home has proved to be a mixed bag after a fall from form at the end of spring.

“What happened? Online happened,” explains midlaner Emil “XXXLarssen” Larssen. “We were on a pretty good track, but then online came and I think some people lost motivation a bit.”

Toplaner Finn “XXXFinn” Wiestål agrees. “I don't think playing from home helped the team initially,” he says. “When we started playing from the house, we had a lot of struggles adapting to the environment.”

So playing from home has been a double-edged sword for the team. While the sense of comfort was welcome, the rush that comes with being on stage was absent.

“The adrenaline kick from playing from the office was not the same as when you walk on stage,” explains XXXFinn. “But I think as time went on, and we kind of learned what works and what doesn't work for us, we became pretty well suited to playing from our own house. If we would go back to playing on stage, we would perform well, but right now I think we're performing rather well playing from here.”

The home advantage
The team have demonstrated a remarkable turnaround in the Summer Season. They started with a blazing 3-0 start in Week 1, before going on to secure victories over strong sides such as XXXFnatic and XXXOrigen. The team currently shares the number one spot in the standings with XXXMADCCLions – a stark contrast to their joint sixth-place finish with XXXMisfitsCCGaming last season. Despite the disruption of unfolding world events, it appears that the break between seasons did the team good, giving them a chance to reflect on what went right and wrong.

“Everyone took time off between the seasons to reflect on their own performance and what they could do to fit the team better to make us more on the same page,” says XXXFinn.

“I think one of the problems we had in spring was that sometimes we had bad cohesion as a unit and we didn't really have an identity. We didn't really know what we did well, we didn't really know what we did wrong. We were like a jack of all trades but master of none. But coming into summer, I really made sure I practised my gaps in my champion pool during the break and made sure that I wouldn't be a liability in draft for the team.”

“Before the split, we talked a lot about the issues we had which have been seen in official games,” adds XXXLarssen. “I think we have way more discipline now. The last season was way, way too much of a 'for fun' mindset. Now I think we have way more discipline and it shows in the results.”

The team is on an understandable high right now, but both XXXFinn and XXXLarssen seem mindful of growing complacent.

“We’ve had an easy start and schedule,” admits XXXLarssen. “But now we've won against XXXFnatic, we've shown that we can win against top teams so now we just need to keep it going. Keep winning against the top teams and we will be one of the best in Europe.”

“I don't think we can see ourselves as one of the top teams yet, considering we only beat XXXFnatic,” agrees XXXFinn. “I think we need to consistently show good performances against other top teams until we can justify calling us one of the best teams in Europe. We still have opportunities to do so but we need to seize them.”

Aiming for world success
Still, the win over XXXFnatic has given the team a good reason to be optimistic. With Europe having recently gained an extra slot for the XXXWorldCCChampionship, the prospect of XXXRogue proving themselves on the world stage seems more real than ever before.

“Going to Worlds is our biggest opportunity to prove ourselves on an international scale,” enthuses XXXFinn. “Not only is it a good way to prove ourselves, but it's also a really good experience for us there. I haven't been there, so to kind of see a different environment than from playing just in your own home league to playing on the world stage… that’s something we all really, really, really want to experience.”

“I would say there’s less pressure since we have one extra spot,” adds XXXLarssen. “If there are three spots, it would be even harder, right? So now it's easier making Worlds but there's obviously a lot of pressure reaching it. Everyone wants to reach Worlds.”

In the meantime, both XXXLarssen and XXXFinn are committed to proving they are among the most talented players in Europe.

“I'm always super hungry to compete,” says XXXLarssen. “Since my debut, I've become more confident and that shows in official games.”

“I'd say I'm a top half player in the league in my role, but I also think that the other toplaners are not very impressive,” adds XXXFinn. “I think when I debuted, I was very unsure of myself, I had not the best communication and I didn't really have any good structure in-game. Right now, I know more of what to do in every point of the game and I don't feel lost when we're not in a position to win.”