SOURCE: https://lolesports.com/article/%E2%80%9Cit-can-get-really-brutal%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-what-do-the-pros-think-of-yuumi/bltbc4c66cd3645937a

XXXYuumi build & playstyle – What Do the Pros Think of XXXYuumi?

XXXYuumi the Magical Cat is one of the most unique champions on the Rift. We ask XXXLIMIT, XXXTore, XXXDreams, and XXXMikyx for their thoughts on the support, and what they would change in the future.

XXXYuumi is without a doubt one of the most unique champions in XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends. The Magical Cat is the only champion that can physically attach herself to a teammate, buff them up, and deal nasty amounts of damage to her opponents at the same time. The champion’s biggest strength is that she remains untargetable as long as she sticks to one of her teammates, which means that she’s difficult to kill – and can be a real thorn in any team’s side.

So who better to ask about the strengths and weaknesses of this powerful but often-maligned champion than some of the greatest supports in the LEC? We caught up with XXSKCCGaming’s XXXDino “XXXLIMIT” XXXTot, XXXExcelCCEsports’ XXXTore “XXXTore” XXXHoel XXXEilertsen, XXXFCCCSchalke 04’s Han “XXXDreams” XXXMin-kook, and XXXG2CCEsports’ XXXMihael “XXXMikyx” XXXMehle to get their take on the Magical Cat.

Best XXXYuumi

One thing that all of our pros can agree on is that there aren’t any other champions quite like her. “She brings an extremely unique gameplay that no other champion can give,” says XXXLIMIT. XXXDreams, meanwhile, thinks we’re not likely to see another champion like XXXYuumi any time soon. “Her concept is very unique,” he says, “and I can’t imagine any champ having a similar concept in the future.”

Perhaps because she stands out so much, XXXYuumi has quickly become a go-to champion in professional play, pretty much ever since her initial release in 2019. In the XXXLeagueCCofCCLegends European Championship (LEC) 2019 Summer Season, she even boasted the highest pick/ban rate in the league at 83.5 percent.

And XXXYuumi remains a popular pick this year, too. She is often paired with XXXEzreal or other hyperscaling bot lane champions, both to provide more survivability in later team fights and to sustain during the early laning phase. XXXYuumi can also be paired with a top lane tank for increased backline diving potential in late-game team fights, making her a versatile support in many ways.

Innovation

The 2019 Summer Season saw Garen, a champion that hasn’t been picked in professional play for years, suddenly being picked up again by teams and paired up with XXXYuumi in the bot lane. The results were astonishing: the normally easy-to-kite Garen suddenly became an unstoppable juggernaut dealing massive amounts of damage. Paired with XXXYuumi, Garen was now able to run down an entire enemy team – and survive. Teams like XXXFnatic capitalised on the combo when they defeated XXXTeamCCVitality in Week 8 of the Summer Season, as seen below. The combo even survived that year’s World Championship patch and even made it into the group stage, where XXXFnatic picked the duo up again against US team XXXClutchCCGaming with spectacular results.

But XXXLIMIT tells us that the days of XXXYuumi carrying the game on the back of XXXGaren are over. “Right now, XXXYuumi is a different type of champion, revolving more around enabling others and being more of a supportive type,” he says. “I would say that if she goes unpunished, she and a champion you pair her up with (preferably a tanky bruiser such as XXXWukong or XXXAatrox) are still able to take the game just through the sheer power of heals and stats she gives.”

XXXLIMIT reckons that XXXYuumi is the strongest during the middle and the later stages of the game, but she isn’t as powerful in the early game because she can “be shut down really easily by a coordinated team”. XXXTore disagrees, however, as he says that shutting down a XXXYuumi is more difficult than it seems. Unlike other enchanters, she is hard to catch because of her untargetability. This makes landing the usual all-ins with a XXXThresh hook or an XXXAlistar knock-up nearly impossible, because she will sit on her partner champion for 80 percent of the laning phase.

XXXYuumi received some nerfs recently in patch 10.25, with an increase in overall mana cost for her healing/speed up skill. XXXLIMIT welcomes the change. “Especially the mana cost,” he says, “since she is a XXXManaflowCCBand or XXXPresenceCCofCCMindCCuser, and she is dependent on getting these procs in a team fight to enable her to sustain mana-wise.” With less mana at her disposal, XXXYuumi won’t be able to spam her heal ability as often during longer fights. However, XXXDreams thinks that the nerfs haven’t affected her viability in professional play, as she is still being picked regularly in team practice matches. “XXXYuumi has decent laning and outscales every support even though she got nerfed,” he says. “She’s definitely still playable in my opinion.”

The Future

The pros don’t think there’s much chance of another champion like her releasing any time soon. For XXXLIMIT, no other champion on the current roster can provide the same gameplay. “The thing with XXXYuumi is – especially in solo queue – that if the bot lane falls behind, she can choose to drop the XXXADC and go play with her jungler or her toplaner,” he explains. “She almost always can find a way to be useful in-game.” To combat this, XXXLIMIT would like to see some way of limiting her experience gain. Even when the cat is behind, she can jump on a fed champion and still help his teammate carry. “It can get really brutal,” he says.

XXXMikyx, meanwhile, is less enthusiastic about the champion, but he hopes that in the future, XXXYuumi will be able to have more skill expression in the game. He also misses her former ability to extend the maximum range of the XXXQ by jumping from teammate to teammate, as it struck him as one of her strongest abilities.

Despite her nerfs earlier in the season, XXXYuumi was still picked twice and banned three times, suggesting that we’re likely to keep seeing more of her. In the coming weeks, we will see if the Magical Cat can make it back to the playoffs stage.